README.md, before:

# Vault::Usage::Client

Client provides a Ruby API for interacting with the `Vault::Usage`
HTTP API.

## Setting up a development environment

Install dependencies and run the test suite:

    bundle install --binstubs vendor/bin
    rbenv rehash
    rake

Run tests:

    rake test

See tasks:

    rake -T

Generate API documentation:

    rake yard

## Using the client

The `Vault::Usage` API may only be accessed with valid credentials.
You must supply these when you create a new client:

```ruby
require 'vault-usage-client'

client = Vault::Usage::Client::Client.new(
  'https://username:secret@vault-usage.herokuapp.com')
```

### Usage events

Usage events represent usage of a product, for a period of time, by an
app or user.

#### Opening a usage event

Each usage event must have a unique UUID provided by the service
reporting it and the start time must be in UTC:

```ruby
event_id = SecureRandom.uuid
product_name = 'platform:dyno:logical'
consumer_hid = 'app1234@heroku.com'
start_time = Time.now.getutc
client.open_usage_event(event_id, product_name, consumer_hid, start_time)
```

Arbitrary data related to the usage event can optionally be provided
by way of a detail object:

```ruby
event_id = SecureRandom.uuid
product_name = 'platform:dyno:logical'
consumer_hid = 'app1234@heroku.com'
start_time = Time.now.getutc
detail = {type: 'web',
          description: 'bundle exec bin/web',
          kernel: 'us-east-1-a'}
client.open_usage_event(event_id, product_name, consumer_hid, start_time,
                        detail)
```

Keys in the detail object must be of type `Symbol` and values may only
be of type `String`, `Fixnum`, `Bignum`, `Float`, `TrueClass`,
`FalseClass` or `NilClass`.  In other words, it's not possible to use
nested structures in the detail object.

#### Closing a usage event

Closing a usage event works the same way as opening one:

```ruby
event_id = SecureRandom.uuid
product_name = 'platform:dyno:logical'
consumer_hid = 'app1234@heroku.com'
stop_time = Time.now.getutc
client.close_event(event_id, product_name, consumer_hid, stop_time)
```

#### Retrieving usage information

Usage information for a particular user can be retrieved by the
client.  The start and stop time must both be specified in UTC:

```ruby
user_hid = 'user1234@heroku.com'
start_time = Time.utc(2013, 1)
stop_time = Time.utc(2013, 2)
events = client.usage_for_user(user_hid, start_time, stop_time)
```

The `events` result is an `Array` of objects matching this format:

```ruby
[{id: '<event-uuid>',
  product: '<name>',
  consumer: '<consumer-hid>',
  start_time: <Time>,
  stop_time: <Time>,
  detail: {<key1>: <value1>,
           <key2>: <value2>,
           ...}},
  ...]}
```

In some cases it can be useful to exclude event data for certain
products:

```ruby
user_hid = 'user1234@heroku.com'
start_time = Time.utc(2013, 1)
stop_time = Time.utc(2013, 2)
events = client.usage_for_user(user_hid, start_time, stop_time,
                               ['platform:dyno:physical'])
```

You can pass one or more product names to exclude.

### App ownership events

App ownership events represent ownership of an app, for a period of
time, by a user.

#### Opening an app ownership event

Each app ownership event must have a unique UUID provided by the
service reporting it and the start time must be in UTC:

```ruby
event_id = SecureRandom.uuid
user_hid = 'user1234@heroku.com'
app_hid = 'app1234@heroku.com'
start_time = Time.now.getutc
client.open_app_ownership_event(event_id, user_hid, app_hid, start_time)
```

#### Closing an app ownership event

Closing an app ownership event works the same way as opening one:

```ruby
event_id = SecureRandom.uuid
user_hid = 'user1234@heroku.com'
app_hid = 'app1234@heroku.com'
stop_time = Time.now.getutc
client.close_app_ownership_event(event_id, user_hid, app_hid, stop_time)
```

Commit message:

- Add details about the command-line tool to the README.

README.md, after:

# Vault::Usage::Client

Client provides a Ruby API for interacting with the `Vault::Usage`
HTTP API.

## Setting up a development environment

Install dependencies and run the test suite:

    bundle install --binstubs vendor/bin
    rbenv rehash
    rake

Run tests:

    rake test

See tasks:

    rake -T

Generate API documentation:

    rake yard

## Using the client from the command-line

The `bin/vault-usage` command-line tool can be used to quickly see
usage data for a particular user:

```bash
export VAULT_USAGE_URL=https://username:secret@vault-usage.herokuapp.com
bin/vault-usage user123@heroku.com 2013-01-01 2013-02-01
```

## Using the client in Ruby

The `Vault::Usage` API may only be accessed with valid credentials.
You must supply these when you create a new client:

```ruby
require 'vault-usage-client'

client = Vault::Usage::Client::Client.new(
  'https://username:secret@vault-usage.herokuapp.com')
```

### Usage events

Usage events represent usage of a product, for a period of time, by an
app or user.

#### Opening a usage event

Each usage event must have a unique UUID provided by the service
reporting it and the start time must be in UTC:

```ruby
event_id = SecureRandom.uuid
product_name = 'platform:dyno:logical'
consumer_hid = 'app1234@heroku.com'
start_time = Time.now.getutc
client.open_usage_event(event_id, product_name, consumer_hid, start_time)
```

Arbitrary data related to the usage event can optionally be provided
by way of a detail object:

```ruby
event_id = SecureRandom.uuid
product_name = 'platform:dyno:logical'
consumer_hid = 'app1234@heroku.com'
start_time = Time.now.getutc
detail = {type: 'web',
          description: 'bundle exec bin/web',
          kernel: 'us-east-1-a'}
client.open_usage_event(event_id, product_name, consumer_hid, start_time,
                        detail)
```

Keys in the detail object must be of type `Symbol` and values may only
be of type `String`, `Fixnum`, `Bignum`, `Float`, `TrueClass`,
`FalseClass` or `NilClass`.  In other words, it's not possible to use
nested structures in the detail object.

#### Closing a usage event

Closing a usage event works the same way as opening one:

```ruby
event_id = SecureRandom.uuid
product_name = 'platform:dyno:logical'
consumer_hid = 'app1234@heroku.com'
stop_time = Time.now.getutc
client.close_event(event_id, product_name, consumer_hid, stop_time)
```

#### Retrieving usage information

Usage information for a particular user can be retrieved by the
client.  The start and stop time must both be specified in UTC:

```ruby
user_hid = 'user1234@heroku.com'
start_time = Time.utc(2013, 1)
stop_time = Time.utc(2013, 2)
events = client.usage_for_user(user_hid, start_time, stop_time)
```

The `events` result is an `Array` of objects matching this format:

```ruby
[{id: '<event-uuid>',
  product: '<name>',
  consumer: '<consumer-hid>',
  start_time: <Time>,
  stop_time: <Time>,
  detail: {<key1>: <value1>,
           <key2>: <value2>,
           ...}},
  ...]}
```

In some cases it can be useful to exclude event data for certain
products:

```ruby
user_hid = 'user1234@heroku.com'
start_time = Time.utc(2013, 1)
stop_time = Time.utc(2013, 2)
events = client.usage_for_user(user_hid, start_time, stop_time,
                               ['platform:dyno:physical'])
```

You can pass one or more product names to exclude.

### App ownership events

App ownership events represent ownership of an app, for a period of
time, by a user.

#### Opening an app ownership event

Each app ownership event must have a unique UUID provided by the
service reporting it and the start time must be in UTC:

```ruby
event_id = SecureRandom.uuid
user_hid = 'user1234@heroku.com'
app_hid = 'app1234@heroku.com'
start_time = Time.now.getutc
client.open_app_ownership_event(event_id, user_hid, app_hid, start_time)
```

#### Closing an app ownership event

Closing an app ownership event works the same way as opening one:

```ruby
event_id = SecureRandom.uuid
user_hid = 'user1234@heroku.com'
app_hid = 'app1234@heroku.com'
stop_time = Time.now.getutc
client.close_app_ownership_event(event_id, user_hid, app_hid, stop_time)
```
